Server documentation (#29)
aau-giraf/wiki: ServerAdministration/PractiaclDocker.md

# Practical Docker in a swarm

> In the following the installation and setup process of DockerCE and Docker Swarm is described and at the end some examples on how to use Docker Services is given.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following the installation and setup process of DockerCE and Docker Swarm is described and at the end, some examples on how to use Docker Services is given.
```

> In the following the installation and setup process of DockerCE and Docker Swarm is described and at the end, some examples on how to use Docker Services is given.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following, the installation and setup process of DockerCE and Docker Swarm is described, and at the end, some examples on how to use Docker Services is given.
```

## Installation of Docker 

> To install DockerCE on a node in the Swarm the following command can be used to setup the local Docker envionment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install DockerCE on a node in the Swarm the following command can be used to set up the local Docker environment:
```

```bash
curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com -o get-docker.sh | sh get-docker.sh
```

> Once the Docker engine has been installed it is recomended that the user is added to the Docker group so every Docker command is not run as root, use the following command to do so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the Docker engine has been installed it is recommended that the user is added to the Docker group so that every Docker command is not run as root, use the following command to do so:
```

> Once the Docker engine has been installed it is recommended that the user is added to the Docker group so that every Docker command is not run as root, use the following command to do so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the Docker engine has been installed, it is recommended that the user is added to the Docker group so that every Docker command is not run as root. The following command ensures that your user is added to the Docker group:
```

```bash
sudo usermod -aG docker <USERNAME>@student.aau.dk
```

> If the Docker installation is going to be used in a Docker Swarm at AAU the following changes is need since the AAU network is running on the default Docker subnet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the Docker installation is going to be used in a Docker Swarm at AAU, the following changes are needed since the AAU network is running on the default Docker subnet.
```

For local installations use the following.

```bash
nano /etc/docker/daemon.json
```

and insert the following:

```json
{
  "bip": "10.14.0.1/16",
  "ipv6": false
}
```

For the Swarm overlay network first create the network manualy with the following command:

```bash
docker network create --subnet 10.10.0.0/16 -o com.docker.network.bridge.enable_icc=false -o com.docker.network.bridge.name=docker_gwbridge 
```

## Initializing the Swarm

> REMEMBER TO CREATE THE NETWORK FIRST

Reviewer: This could be a general statement for the parent section, as all subsections include this statement

Author: But it is also very important that they remember it since most of the networking on that server will go down if forgot.

On the first master server run the following command:

```bash
docker swarm init
```

### Adding a manager to the Swarm

> REMEMBER TO CREATE THE NETWORK FIRST

Reviewer: This could be a general statement for the parent section, as all subsections include this statement

Once the Docker Swarm is initialized used the following command on the first master server to get the join token for the swarm:

> ```basj

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

docker swarm join-token --manager
```

The output is copied to the new master server.

### Adding a worker to the Swarm

> REMEMBER TO CREATE THE NETWORK FIRST

Reviewer: This could be a general statement for the parent section, as all subsections include this statement

To add a worker to the Swarm first run the following command on one of the managers:

```bash
docker swarm join-token worker
```

> The output should be run on the serveres intended to be workers in the Swarm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output should be run on the servers intended to be workers in the Swarm.
```

> Now the Docker Swarm has been created and is ready to serve.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that the Docker Swarm has been created and is ready to serve.
```

| ID                           | HOSTNAME                   | STATUS             | AVAILABILITY       | MANAGER STATUS     | ENGINE VERSION |
| :--------------------------- | :------------------------- | :----------------- | :----------------- | :----------------- | :------------- |
| yny9ky6b6zczqrjzxd7sl71k6 *  | giraf-master00.srv.aau.dk  | Ready              | Active             | Leader             | 18.09.3        |
| 2n08r588w9p8xazc5cm8r6o9o    | giraf-master01.srv.aau.dk  | Ready              | Active             | Reachable          | 18.09.3        |
| wrr68nqt116tk1rszwvdv1nmk    | giraf-node00.srv.aau.dk    | Ready              | Active             |                    | 18.09.3        |
| bhh5mitvwzdhzbky1cjne9ffg    | giraf-node01.srv.aau.dk    | Ready              | Active             |                    | 18.09.3        |
| as7n375y2gwcj5vf4h73h9ron    | giraf-node02.srv.aau.dk    | Ready              | Active             |                    | 18.09.3        |
| koclcs8nxt0y6qu4ho511la0m    | giraf-node03.srv.aau.dk    | Ready              | Active             |                    | 18.09.3        |


## Examples of using a service

> Once the Docker Swarm has been set up it can be used to serve the different parts of the project. In the following we will give some examples on how to work with the Swarm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the Docker Swarm has been set up, it can be used to serve the different parts of the project. In the following, we will give some examples of how to work with the Swarm.
```

### Example nginx

> To create a new service use the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new service, use the following:
```

```bash
docker service create --name nginx-giraf-proxy --replicas 2 -p 80:80 -p 443:443 nginx:1.15
```

> Be running this command an service with two containers will be stated and the containers will have port 80 and 443 exposed to the internet and can be accessed on the Swarms public IP's. The two containers will be running the nginx version 1.15.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By running this command, a service with two containers will be stated and the containers will have port 80 and 443 exposed to the internet and can be accessed on the Swarms public IP's. The two containers will be running the nginx version 1.15.
```

> To upgrade the version that a service uses run the following to downgrade or upgrade the service:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To upgrade the version that a service uses, run the following to downgrade or upgrade the service:
```

```bash
docker service update --image nginx:1.12 nginx-giraf-proxy
```

> To encrease the number of contaners a service creates use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To increase the number of containers a service creates, use the following command:
```

```bash
docker service scale nginx-giraf-proxy=5
```

To verify the service use the following command:

```bash
docker service ps nginx-giraf-proxy
```

> The outpus should look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The outputs should look like this:
```

| ID                 | NAME               | IMAGE              | NODE                       | DESIRED STATE      | CURRENT STATE           | ERROR              | PORTS |
| :------------------|:-------------------|:-------------------|:---------------------------|:-------------------|:------------------------|:-------------------|:-----|
| iksklc50ttxt       | nginx-giraf-proxy.1| nginx:latest       | giraf-master01.srv.aau.dk  | Running            | Running 29 minutes ago  |                    ||

> Note that the ports exposed is not listed in this view since it is served throug the service and can be seen then running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the ports exposed are not listed in this view since it is served through the service and can be seen then running the following command:
```
